Cluster size 2 package rbf (#28984)
bitcoin/bitcoin: doc/policy/packages.md

* Packages cannot have conflicting transactions, i.e. no two transactions in a package can spend
   the same inputs. Packages cannot have duplicate transactions. (#20833)

* Only limited package replacements are currently considered. (#28984)

   - All direct conflicts must signal replacement (or have `-mempoolfullrbf=1` set).

   - Packages are 1-parent-1-child, with no in-mempool ancestors of the package.

   - All conflicting clusters must be clusters of up to size 2.

   - No more than MAX_REPLACEMENT_CANDIDATES transactions can be replaced.

>    - Total fee plus incremental relay fee must be paid (ala bip125 rules 3 and 4).

Reviewer: No mentions of BIP125 outside of signaling pls
```suggestion
   - Replacements must pay more total total fees at the incremental relay fee (analogous to regular [replacement rules](./mempool-replacements.md) 3 and 4).
```

Author: sure, taken

   - Parent feerate must be lower than package feerate.

   - Must improve feerate diagram. (#29242)

   - *Rationale*: Basic support for package RBF can be used by wallets
     by making chains of no longer than two, then directly conflicting

>      those chains when needed. Combined with V3 transactions this can

Reviewer: Maybe there should be some v3 test coverage (including nice 0fee parent package RBF)?
```
diff --git a/test/functional/mempool_accept_v3.py b/test/functional/mempool_accept_v3.py
index 8285b82c19..990d36359e 100755
--- a/test/functional/mempool_accept_v3.py
+++ b/test/functional/mempool_accept_v3.py
@@ -579,6 +579,32 @@ class MempoolAcceptV3(BitcoinTestFramework):
         )
         self.check_mempool([tx_with_multi_children["txid"], tx_with_sibling3_rbf["txid"], tx_with_sibling2["txid"]])
 
+    @cleanup(extra_args=["-acceptnonstdtxn=1"])
+    def test_package_rbf(self):
+        self.log.info("Test package RBF: v3 0-fee parent + high-fee child replaces parent's conflicts")
+        node = self.nodes[0]
+        # Reuse the same coins so that the transactions conflict with one another.
+        parent_coin = self.wallet.get_utxo(confirmed_only=True)
+
+        # package1 pays default fee on both transactions
+        parent1 = self.wallet.create_self_transfer(utxo_to_spend=parent_coin, version=3)
+        child1 = self.wallet.create_self_transfer(utxo_to_spend=parent1["new_utxo"], version=3)
+        package_hex1 = [parent1["hex"], child1["hex"]]
+        fees_package1 = parent1["fee"] + child1["fee"]
+        submitres1 = node.submitpackage(package_hex1)
+        assert_equal(submitres1["package_msg"], "success")
+        self.check_mempool([parent1["txid"], child1["txid"]])
+
+        # package2 has a 0-fee parent (conflicting with package1) and very high fee child
+        parent2 = self.wallet.create_self_transfer(utxo_to_spend=parent_coin, fee=0, fee_rate=0, version=3)
+        child2 = self.wallet.create_self_transfer(utxo_to_spend=parent2["new_utxo"], fee=fees_package1*10, version=3)
+        package_hex2 = [parent2["hex"], child2["hex"]]
+
+        submitres2 = node.submitpackage(package_hex2)
+        assert_equal(submitres2["package_msg"], "success")
+        assert_equal(set(submitres2["replaced-transactions"]), set([parent1["txid"], child1["txid"]]))
+        self.check_mempool([parent2["txid"], child2["txid"]])
+
 
     def run_test(self):
         self.log.info("Generate blocks to create UTXOs")
@@ -598,6 +624,7 @@ class MempoolAcceptV3(BitcoinTestFramework):
         self.test_reorg_2child_rbf()
         self.test_v3_sibling_eviction()
         self.test_reorg_sibling_eviction_1p2c()
+        self.test_package_rbf()
 
 
 if __name__ == "__main__":
```

Author: was wondering about this case, added with some modifications for test simplicity

Author: done in follow-up, I had removed V3 in test, not the actual doc

* Packages cannot have conflicting transactions, i.e. no two transactions in a package can spend
   the same inputs. Packages cannot have duplicate transactions. (#20833)

* Only limited package replacements are currently considered. (#28984)

   - All direct conflicts must signal replacement (or have `-mempoolfullrbf=1` set).

   - Packages are 1-parent-1-child, with no in-mempool ancestors of the package.

>    - All conflicting clusters must be clusters of up to size 2.

Author: defined it inline

>    - No more than MAX_REPLACEMENT_CANDIDATES transactions can be replaced.

Author: done

   - Replacements must pay more total total fees at the incremental relay fee (analogous to
     regular [replacement rules](./mempool-replacements.md) 3 and 4).

   - Parent feerate must be lower than package feerate.

>    - Must improve feerate diagram. (#29242)

Author: Added delving link but for Future Work I'm wondering longer term where cluster mempool design stuff should live.

* Packages cannot have conflicting transactions, i.e. no two transactions in a package can spend

>    the same inputs. Packages cannot have duplicate transactions. (#20833)

Reviewer 2: I think this comment is now also outdated?

* Only limited package replacements are currently considered. (#28984)

>    - All direct conflicts must signal replacement (or have `-mempoolfullrbf=1` set).

Author: done in follow-up

   - Packages are 1-parent-1-child, with no in-mempool ancestors of the package.

>    - All conflicting clusters(connected components of mempool transactions) must be clusters of up to size 2.

Author: done in follow-up

* Packages cannot have conflicting transactions, i.e. no two transactions in a package can spend
   the same inputs. Packages cannot have duplicate transactions. (#20833)

* Only limited package replacements are currently considered. (#28984)

>    - More general package RBF may be enabled in the future.

Reviewer: Could add more detailed docs for what the rules are in package RBF?

- all to-be-replaced signal (bip125 or v3)
- package is 1p1c, only in clusters up to size 2
- to-be-replaced all in clusters up to size 2
- no more than 100 total to-be-replaced
- total fees of package > all fees being replaced, at incremental relay feerate
- must improve feerate diagram
- parent feerate must be < package feerate

Author: @glozow pushed some more detailed docs, thanks!

>      heavily connected, i.e. some transaction in the package is the ancestor or descendant of all

Author: changed wording of commit

     the other transactions.

> * [CPFP Carve Out](./mempool-limits.md#CPFP-Carve-Out) is disabled. (#21800)

Reviewer 3: At first when I see  CPFP carveout disabled I thought we are not longer supporting single transaction CPFP carveout because the linked document is describing rules for a single transaction CPFP carveout.

But from the commit message and reading the code I understand thats not the case, I think we should be explicit that it's package CPFP carvout that is disabled. 

```suggestion
* [Package CPFP Carve Out](./mempool-limits.md#CPFP-Carve-Out) is disabled. (#21800)
```

Author: added an extra phrase, hope that helps?

   - *Rationale*: This carve out cannot be accurately applied when there are multiple transactions'
     ancestors and descendants being considered at the same time.

> 

Reviewer 3: This also implies that [single conflict package RBF carvout](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/23711#discussion_r765766768) is not supported, is this worth mentioning?

The following rules are only enforced for packages to be submitted to the mempool (not
enforced for test accepts):

> 

Reviewer 3: In `packages.md` there is note stating "Replace By Fee is currently disabled for packages." This is no longer the case, some variants of package can now be RBF'd I think we should indicate that we now support cluster size 2 package replacement into node's mempool stating the new acceptance rules.

Author: added updated comment
